# Cloe Pilot Usability Testing
## Digital Humanities 110 - Peterson Le

### Introduction
Cloe is a personal skincare diary where you can log the products that you are using and record your skin’s progress. You can also leave reviews on the products that you have tried, while also containing a pseudo-social media where you can post your review and rating of products, leave likes, and write comments. 

After conducting a heuristics evaluation on the application, I found many issues that I wanted to address and see if it was a user error or an error with the user experience design. Firstly, there was many fault with the visability of system status -- the search feature only shows a blank screen even if an input has been entered, the camera is completely nonfunctional, and analytics takes some time to update without informing the user. Secondly, there is an issue with the match between systems and the real world in that the Cloe make assumptions about the standard organization of information in the notification; therefore, they chose to leave out information that would aid in setting up the notifications. Thirdly, in terms of consistency and standard, Cloe's home page mimics Instagram almost entirely with a focus on skincare. By doing so, it makes it unclear what functions are present as users are hyperfocused on the Instagram qualities that are not there. This leads to the error in recognition vs. recall. On Instagram, users can see posts that they have liked and saved, and receives notification on their posts that have been liked and commented on; however, Cloe does not provide any of those functions. Therfeore, users must remember what posts they have interacted with along with the products they were interested in.

I wanted to see if other users come into contact with these issues, and whether these issues disrupts the flow of the user. Therefore, I conducted a usability test to discover how the users would navigate throughout the site in spite of these issues. The test will try to capture the effectiveness and efficiency by having the user perform key tasks and recording their interactions with the site. In addition, this test will test for user satisfaction by conducting a survery about their experience using the site. Task01 and Task02 will test how effective is the entry log and the ability to only input one diary per day (morning skincare routine and night skincare routine will be shown in the same box). Task03 will test the functionality of the search feature, or the lack thereof, and the methods users use to search for items when the search feature is down. Lastly, a survey at the end that ask questions about the difficulty of the site, their satifactions, and a simple desirability test will be ensued.

### Methodology
We used Zoom application software to conduct this interview, while both the moderator and the participant was asked to sit in a quiet room without other individuals. The participant must enter zoom on their phone as well as on their laptop or computer. The purpose of this was to be able to keep track of their facial expressions during recording (using the laptop/computer) while also being able to screenshare their experience with the mobile application, Cloe. 

The moderator first introduced themselves and the application that they are studying. During this introduction, they also describe the setting of the study and how recording will take place, how the information gained from the study will be used, what is expected of the participant and participant reassurance, and left room for questions. Afterwards, they presented the participant with an informed consent form and received verbal consent from each participant. Lastly, they proceeded with the tasks and satisfaction survey described in the previous sections.

### Materials and Links
[Survey Link](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScIoHeBz-hcB0kaB3md0ecEU_Kl52ZotAF39YowAP7Wj6s4vg/formResponse)
[Video Recording](

### Reflection
I was very surprised by some of the results from the interview. When initially going through the website, I described that an onboarding process may not have been necessary because Cloe was simple in spute of the many issues I have encountered during it. For instance, one of my diary entry of overwritten when trying to add a second diary entry. This is because you must edit the first entry to update the information. The user who I interviewed did not have this problem and was able to update their morning and night skincare routine without error. They stated that this application reminded them of others that they use to keep track of their calories and their period cycle; thus, it was easier to get used to it. As a result, I realized the importance of including an onboarding process for individuals who do not have experience with similar apps. It is inefficeint to have users learn through trial and error.

I also learned how mimicking an already existing design can be very costly to the user. As aforementioned, Cloe takes many design inspirations from Instagram, yet lacks many of its functionality. As my participant have much experience with Instagram, they initially found the app to be confusing in terms of which feature is actually included from Instagram. By mimicking Instagram, the main purpose of Cloe as a skincare tracker was masked behind the idea of a community building social media. Hence, the user rated Cloe as an application with any inconsistencies. 

Lastly, through this interview I found out that the search feature does work, yet it only allow one word searches. This made it difficult for the user to find "Simple Soothing Facial Toner," especially if they did not know that there can only be one word in the search bar. Thhus, they did what I expected them to do and had to search for the product through scrolling through the main feed. This would become a great issue with there was a lot more posts, especially because items cannot be saved.

Overally, the pilot usability test went well. There was no issues regarding internet connection, the zoom application software, or errors with the materials used to test the participant. The only issue we faced was trying to create an account for Cloe which took up 20 minutes to set up the account. Other than that, the entire interview process went smoothly.
